# COVID-19-Cases-Analysis-R
UC Davis STA207 Course Project

This project is regarding to the analysis of factors affecting the Covid-19 cases and deaths, including but not limited to time, location, Covid variants, and vaccination related information, collected by or reported to WHO since the start of the pandemic. For a better understanding, some background information is provided beforehand of the analysis. Since there are tons of questions can be developed from the data and information, two questions of interest are also defined for the project: on one hand, the effects of different WHO regions and Covid-19 variants, such as Delta and Omicron, on new cases will be analyzed; on the other hand, the influences of vaccination related factors, including total vaccinations number of a country, persons fully vaccinated of that country, country's first vaccine date, and number of vaccine types used, on preventing COVID-19 spreads will be studied. In the first data pre-processing stage, three datasets will be cleaned and manipulated: missing values are handled, variables are selected, dummy variables and categorical values are created with original columns, and data is merged based on the problem statement. After that, some exploratory data analysis are performed: data transformations and outlier detection are done with EDA outputs. Then, assumptions, parameters, effects plots for ANOVA models are obtained and two multi-way ANOVA models are constructed. Based on ANOVA model outputs, causal inference analysis, such as F-tests and t-tests, is conducted. In order check model assumptions, model diagnostic plots are generated. Lastly, the results are discussed for making conclusions and limitations & recommendations for the project are included as well. 
